The average number of requests needed to properly display
a website rises constantly and has recently risen over 100.
That means on average,
a website requires over 100 requests to display correctly.
Things are getting a little crazy.
Remember that HTPP 1 does not work well with lots of requests.
Fortunately HTTP 2 has come to the rescue.
We'll look at some problems of HTTP 1 and how HTTP 2 is solving them.
One of the reasons we have so many requests,
is because of Head of Line blocking.
We talked about this earlier,
but it's so important.
Let's briefly go over it again.
Head of Line blocking is when one request is blocking others from completing.
A browser will open at most six connections to the same server.
That means at most six requests can be in-flight simultaneously.
At the very least,
you'll have to wait for the request to be sent and then the response to be sent back.
These two together are called the round trip.
And the round trip time can take between 20 to 50 milliseconds on a good connection.
Let's do some quick math.
Let's say a site needs to send 100 requests to load completely.
We can handle six requests in parallel,
which means ideally each connection will need to make
17 requests to download all 100 requests.
With each request having a round trip time averaging roughly 35 milliseconds.
This yields 525 milliseconds.
About half a second of waiting, of doing nothing.
And this assumes that actually transferring
the requested file doesn't take any time at all.
If the file being transferred is large,
then this number will become a lot bigger.
This round-trip time is an average.
If there's an unstable or slow Internet connection,
things only get worse.
Head of Line blocking is a disaster to good loading performance of a website.
With HTTP 2, we don't have to worry about Head of Line blocking.